when you hear the letters sli
you probably think of grand gaming
machines that can crush anything like
gtx 1080 ti
sli four titans
but what about the other end of the
spectrum just how bad can an sli gaming
machine be well
once again
linus tech tips is bringing you the
answer to a burning question
that nobody asked
[Music]
cooler masters 25th anniversary edition
cosmos 2 features a unique dual curved
tempered glass side panel check it out
now at the link below
so it all started while we were working
on cheapest newegg pc and we stumbled
across something astonishing hey our
graphics card supports sli and we've got
two of them so of course
we
immediately set out to build what would
end up being the cheapest and almost the
worst sli rig possible but the reason
that we bought two of those geforce 8400
gs cards was actually in case one of
them broke and it's always a good plan
when we're ordering super cheap and old
stuff for videos on a deadline and sure
enough while attempting to test sli one
of them broke almost immediately but
honestly they weren't actually the worst
sli capable cards that nvidia ever made
and if we were gonna have to buy more
cards anyway we felt like we should
really go for the worst
of the worst i mean effectively we were
aware that there wouldn't be much
difference between a turd burger and
nail clipping soup and nail clipping
soup but here at linus tech tips we only
accept the best of the best or the worst
of the worst so i present to you hailing
from the year 2006 the nvidia geforce
7100 gs
the worst nvidia graphics card to ever
feature support for sli
these things are so freaking worthless
that it's hard to find one of them let
alone two
i mean on ebay there were a couple
available but no matching pairs and
that's ignoring completely unreasonable
shipping costs
even our industry contacts like evga and
asus
didn't bother holding on to any of these
so they had nothing kicking around cause
why would they
fortunately though we have awesome fans
and after a twitter post matt and archer
grimes hooked us up with these
beautiful specimens thanks guys so the
geforce 7100 then a card that was
basically a re-brand of the worst card
on the market from the year 2004 the
geforce 6200
but now with sli
so with a whopping 20 watt power draw a
blistering 350 megahertz core clock and
300 megahertz memory clock these things
are only out computed by the most
experienced abacus users
hailed in their time as
only acceptable for office use and
anything but sensible
we're expecting running these cards in
games to be about like taking your dad's
lawnmower to le mans
and he's got a push mower so we toss
them in our system and
huh
where's the set sli configuration option
i mean it says so on the web page sli
maybe it's windows 10 screwing with our
drivers
but in windows 7 it it doesn't work
either
documentation for running these guys in
sli is basically a couple of jokes about
it on tech forums from 10 years ago
and then
one german review website that did get
it to work so there was still hope after
some more digging we found out that only
x-58 boards and older will work with the
slr driver so rock on then time to ah
crap
then while installing the board on our
bench one of the capacitors literally
fell off its leads
so
after stealing a similar enough one off
of another dead motherboard and
soldering it on we were back in business
maybe
it still wouldn't work
after some more digging it turns out
that maybe only 32-bit versions of
windows will support
this old of sli
making the 48 gigs of ram in our system
look a little imba and unnecessary but
we decided to leave it all in there
anyway because it looks cool in the end
almost hashtag out of ideas we blew the
dust off of our cd drive burned
ourselves a copy of windows xp 32-bit
and spent about a morning in driver
compatibility hell until finally
yes finally we had the pinnacle of
piss-poor pc performance so first we
tried out some games using one of the
7100s to set a baseline where it
performed about as well as you'd expect
one and a half fps in 3dmark 2006 like
10 in crisis and actually a pretty good
experience in halo combat evolved and
well over 60 frames per second in 3dmark
se
so we were hopeful about its performance
with sli enabled
until well
everything crashed
almost immediately
3d mark 2001 2006 halo crisis and
half-life 2. the sli performance of this
machine completely exceeded our
expectations for how crap it would be
truly the definition of unplayable the
only 3d object that wouldn't crash the
computer immediately was the 3d text
screensaver and even that had stuttering
issues and we aren't talking soft
crashes here you open a game boom
and you'll be reaching for the reset
switch
we tried a bunch of different drivers
from 91.45 all the way up to 307 since
we wanted at least one game to work so
we could compare performance and they
all immediately died with sli enabled so
you might be asking yourself then why
bother releasing this video at all
well i guess it's because we learned
some things along the way that we felt
were important to pass along one driver
support for 11 year old graphics cards
isn't great
number two
windows xp isn't as good as we all
remember it being
number three
capacitors can fall off old motherboards
pretty easily then can be fixed pretty
easily and finally four
holy sweet balls whatever you do
don't run
the 7100 gs in sli you're welcome
ting is the mobile carrier that is
focused on customer service and customer
satisfaction
first you don't speak to a robot when
you call customer service at ting you
get put through directly to a person and
somehow they manage that with an average
ting bill for their customers out there
of only 23 bucks a month per device
because ting is all about the concept of
paying for only what you use so this is
cool you go onto their website we've got
a link below
linusdotting.com and you try out the
savings calculator you enter your last
few bills with your current carrier and
how much data and talk time you used and
it spits out whether you would save
money on ting and if you would save
money on ting they will actually cover
25 of your cancellation fee out of your
existing contract up to 75 dollars and
if you use our link down below you'll
also get 25 bucks in service credit or
towards a new device so go try it out
that's linus.ting.com
so thanks for watching guys if you
disliked this video you can hit that
button but if you liked it hit the like
button get subscribed maybe consider
checking out where to
buy a new graphics card in the video
description also down there is our merch
store where you can buy cool shirts like
this one and our community forum which
you should totally join